---
layout: scribble
title: What cure is there for envy?
date: 14 June, 2018
---

Comparisons. The root cause for most of the unhappy faces seen among humans.
When one compares their present with anything that they perceive to be "better", there arises a feeling of envy. A feeling that yearns for everything else to be worse or atleast not be "better" than one's present.
As Bertrand Russell says in his book, "The Conquest of Happiness":  
"Yes", says the envious man, "this is a sunny day, and it is springtime, and the birds are singing, and the flowers are in bloom, but I understand that the springtime in Sicily is a thousand times more beautiful, that the birds
sing more exquisitely in the groves of Helicon, and that the rose of Sharon is more lovely than any in my garden."  
As one can see from a distance, such comparisons are pointless and foolish. Unfortunately though, one cannot discern the foolishness from being reasonable in the moment. It is when one starts seeing everything that someone else
has and believes that one's possessions are not as enjoyable as others, envy is born. The man that Bertrand Russell talks about is lost in the vicious circle of comparisons, where everything that he has or knows or feels
seems inferior because someone else has something that he does not.  
The cure for envy is clearly happiness. However, envy itself is a huge impediment to happiness. Maybe we are doomed to feel envious, because there is so much competition in the world these days. Maybe a little bit of envy is good as it may help one push their limits. Maybe. Or ..